# Indian_Agriculture_in_Odisha_Crop-yield_prediction
#ABSTRACT
The impact of climate change in India, most of the agricultural crops are being badly affected in terms of their performance over a period of the last two decades. Predicting the crop yield in advance of its harvest would help the policy makers and farmers for taking appropriate measures for marketing and storage. This project will help the farmers to know the yield of their crop before cultivating onto the agricultural field and thus help them to make the appropriate decisions. It attempts to solve the issue by building a prototype of an interactive prediction system. Implementation of such a system with an easy-to-use web based graphic user interface and the machine learning algorithm will be carried out. The results of the prediction will be made available to the farmer.

#OBJECTIVES
Crop yield prediction is an important agricultural problem. The Agricultural yield primarily depends on weather conditions , area and accurate information about history of crop yield is an important thing for making decisions related to agricultural risk management and future predictions. Crop yield prediction is an essential task for the decision-makers at national and regional levels for rapid decision-making. An accurate crop yield prediction model can help farmers to decide on what to grow and when to grow.
#Methodology
Data Preprocessing is a method that is used to convert the raw data into a clean data set. The data are gathered from different sources, it is collected in raw format which is not feasible for the analysis. By applying different techniques like replacing missing values and null values. The final step on data preprocessing is the splitting of training and testing data. The data usually tend to be split unequally because training the model usually requires as much datapoints as possible. The training dataset is the initial dataset used to train ML algorithms to learn and produce right predictions (Here 80% of dataset is taken as training dataset). There are a lot of factors that affects the yield of any crop and its production. These are basically the features that help in predicting the production of any crop over the year.
#Apply the ANN model:
A Random Forest Algorithm is a supervised machine learning algorithm which is extremely popular and is used for Classification and Regression problems in Machine Learning. Random forest comprises numerous trees, and the more trees more it will be robust. 
#Apply the ANN model:
Artificial neural network (ANN) is a computational model that consists of several processing elements that receive inputs and deliver outputs based on their predefined activation functions.
ANNs are efficient data-driven modelling tools widely used for nonlinear systems dynamic modelling and identification, due to their universal approximation capabilities and flexible structure that allow to capture complex nonlinear behaviors. 
Results of ANN:  ANN got RMSE and MAE is 0.014 and 0.022
